README.md, before:

rbot
======================

### Getting started

Assuming you have go set up (http://golang.org/),

	git clone git://github.com/kless/goconfig.git
	cd goconfig
	make -C config install
	cd ..
	git clone git://github.com/vermi/rbot.git
	cd rbot
	make -C client install
	make

rbot.conf and auth.conf will be copied. Configure those and then run the bot:

	./rbot

### Flags

Access is configured in auth.conf, is per-channel, based on ident and host; nick is ignored. The owner is configured per server and other access is configured per channel. Owners can use any commands.

The following is a description of the commands enabled by each flag:

- `a`: add remove
- `o`: op halfop deop dehalfop kick|k ban|b unban|u kb
- `h`: halfop|hop dehalfop|dehop kick|k ban|b unban|u kb (hop and dehop can only be used on yourself and you cannot kick or kb people with o or h)
- `v`: voice, devoice
- `t`: topic appendtopic
- `s`: say

In addition, a user must have at least one flag to use `flags` and `list` (so users without access can't spam the bot).

### Commands

All commands are prefixed with the trigger configured in rbot.conf.

Access related commands:

- `flags raylu`: get's raylu's flags
- `flags`: get's your flags
- `add raylu t`: gives raylu the t flag
- `remove raylu t`: removes the t flag from raylu
- `remove raylu`: removes all of raylu's flags
- `list`: lists all users and their access
- `list raylu`: searches the access list for raylu

Admin commands:

- `nick john`: changes the bot's nick to john
- `say text`: says text to the channel

Op commands:

- `halfop|hop`: halfop yourself
- `halfop|hop raylu john`: halfop raylu and john
- `op`: op yourself
- `op raylu john`: op raylu and john
- `deop`: deop yourself
- `deop raylu john`: deop raylu and john
- `dehalfop`: dehalfop yourself
- `dehalfop|dehop raylu john`: dehalfop raylu and john
- `voice`: voice yourself
- `voice raylu john`: voice raylu and john
- `devoice`: devoice yourself
- `devoice raylu john`: devoice raylu and john
- `kick|k raylu`: kick raylu
- `ban|b raylu john!*@*`: ban raylu by hostname and john by nick
- `unban|u raylu john!*@*`: unban raylu by hostname and john by nick
- `kb raylu`: kick raylu, then ban him by hostname
- `topic text`: sets the topic and basetopic to text
- `topic`: gets the current basetopic
- `appendtopic text`: if the topic does not starts with basetopic, sets the basetopic to the current topic. Makes the topic basetopic+text.
- `part`: leaves the channel

Google API commands:

- `tr text`: detect the language of text
- `tr en|ja en|es text`: translate text into Japanese and Spanish
- `roman text`: translate text into romaji (see rbot.conf.example)
- `calc 1 usd in yen`: convert 1 USD to Japanese yen

Danbooru API commands:

- `booru tag [tag2 tag3 ...]`: search the boorus for images containing any of the listed tags.
	* `+tag`: marks a tag as mandatory
	* `-tag`: marks a tag as undesired
	* `rating:[s,q,e]`: looks for images rated `s`afe, `q`uestionable, or `e`xplicit
- `loli`: returns a random loli image
- `sloli`: returns a random work-safe loli image
- `futa`: returns a random futa image

QDB Commands:

- `aq < raylu> blah`: Submits "< raylu> blah" as a quote to ChalamiuS's QDB.
	* Use `\n` to separate new lines, for example: `aq < raylu> blah\n< vermi> blah!`
- `gq 10`: Gets quote with ID 10 from ChalamiuS's QDB.
- `rq`: Gets a random quote from ChalamiuS's QDB

GitHub API Commands:

- `bug blah`: Submits "blah" as an issue to the owner's rbot fork. The issue feature must be enabled in your repository for this to work.

Commands that don't require access behave the same when sent to a channel the bot is in and when whispered to the bot.

Commands that require access are listed above as if they were sent to a channel. When sent as a whisper, the first argument must be a channel name.

The bot will accept invites from the owner to any channel and only the owner can use `part`.

### Miscellaneous

This project was forked from jessta/goirc which is in turn forked from fluffle/goirc. Both of those projects are focused on developing the goirc framework whereas this is focused on developing a bot.

Commit message:

Updated doc: anime-planet, QDB, help

README.md, after:

rbot
======================

### Getting started

Assuming you have go set up (http://golang.org/),

	git clone git://github.com/kless/goconfig.git
	cd goconfig
	make -C config install
	cd ..
	git clone git://github.com/vermi/rbot.git
	cd rbot
	make -C client install
	make

rbot.conf and auth.conf will be copied. Configure those and then run the bot:

	./rbot

### Flags

Access is configured in auth.conf, is per-channel, based on ident and host; nick is ignored. The owner is configured per server and other access is configured per channel. Owners can use any commands.

The following is a description of the commands enabled by each flag:

- `a`: add remove
- `o`: op halfop deop dehalfop kick|k ban|b unban|u kb
- `h`: halfop|hop dehalfop|dehop kick|k ban|b unban|u kb (hop and dehop can only be used on yourself and you cannot kick or kb people with o or h)
- `v`: voice, devoice
- `t`: topic appendtopic
- `s`: say

In addition, a user must have at least one flag to use `flags` and `list` (so users without access can't spam the bot).

### Commands

All commands are prefixed with the trigger configured in rbot.conf.

Access related commands:

- `flags raylu`: get's raylu's flags
- `flags`: get's your flags
- `add raylu t`: gives raylu the t flag
- `remove raylu t`: removes the t flag from raylu
- `remove raylu`: removes all of raylu's flags
- `list`: lists all users and their access
- `list raylu`: searches the access list for raylu

Admin commands:

- `nick john`: changes the bot's nick to john
- `say text`: says text to the channel

Op commands:

- `halfop|hop`: halfop yourself
- `halfop|hop raylu john`: halfop raylu and john
- `op`: op yourself
- `op raylu john`: op raylu and john
- `deop`: deop yourself
- `deop raylu john`: deop raylu and john
- `dehalfop`: dehalfop yourself
- `dehalfop|dehop raylu john`: dehalfop raylu and john
- `voice`: voice yourself
- `voice raylu john`: voice raylu and john
- `devoice`: devoice yourself
- `devoice raylu john`: devoice raylu and john
- `kick|k raylu`: kick raylu
- `ban|b raylu john!*@*`: ban raylu by hostname and john by nick
- `unban|u raylu john!*@*`: unban raylu by hostname and john by nick
- `kb raylu`: kick raylu, then ban him by hostname
- `topic text`: sets the topic and basetopic to text
- `topic`: gets the current basetopic
- `appendtopic text`: if the topic does not starts with basetopic, sets the basetopic to the current topic. Makes the topic basetopic+text.
- `part`: leaves the channel

Google API commands:

- `tr text`: detect the language of text
- `tr en|ja en|es text`: translate text into Japanese and Spanish
- `roman text`: translate text into romaji (see rbot.conf.example)
- `calc 1 usd in yen`: convert 1 USD to Japanese yen

Help commands:
- `help`: displays a list of possible help topics
- `help topic`: displays help on topic, as long as it's in the list of possible topics.
Help topics and content are manually entered in help.conf. You probably won't need to change this, unless you add commands to the bot yourself.

Imageboard Search Commands:

- `booru tag [tag2 tag3 ...]`: search the boorus for images containing any of the listed tags.
	* `+tag`: marks a tag as mandatory
	* `-tag`: marks a tag as undesired
	* `rating:[s,q,e]`: looks for images rated `s`afe, `q`uestionable, or `e`xplicit
- `loli`: returns a random loli image
- `sloli`: returns a random work-safe loli image
- `futa`: returns a random futa image

QDB Commands:

- `aq < raylu> blah`: Submits "< raylu> blah" as a quote to ChalamiuS's QDB.
	* Use `\n` to separate new lines, for example: `aq < raylu> blah\n< vermi> blah!`
- `gq 10`: Gets quote with ID 10 from ChalamiuS's QDB.
- `rq`: Gets a random quote from ChalamiuS's QDB
- `sq blah`: searches the QDB for 'blah'. Currently only supports one-word searches.

Anime-planet.com Commands:

- `apnick vermi`: records my site username as vermi (useful if I change nicks a lot)
- `mynick`: checks if I've set my site username, and tells me what it's set as
- `profile`: if I've set apnick, uses that value to return a link to my profile; otherwise, uses my current nick
- `profile vermi`: displays a link to vermi's profile; checks to see if a user named 'vermi' exists, first.
- `mymanga` and `myanime`: work the same as `profile`, but return links to Manga and Anime lists, respectively

Commands that don't require access behave the same when sent to a channel the bot is in and when whispered to the bot.

Commands that require access are listed above as if they were sent to a channel. When sent as a whisper, the first argument must be a channel name.

The bot will accept invites from the owner to any channel and only the owner can use `part`.

### Miscellaneous

This project was forked from jessta/goirc which is in turn forked from fluffle/goirc. Both of those projects are focused on developing the goirc framework whereas this is focused on developing a bot.
